friends here.
We're going toe work with CS three files using Python.
So first of all,
what is CSP?
So guys simply CSC is a comma Separator values that means whatever the values you have in a
CSP file,
they all are separated by a comma or separate res comma or dilemma.
Trees come separated or de limiter is seen,
right?
Fine.
No,
Why?
We're using this.
So you're when we use this just to store tabler type of data such as you were excellent or
database data off course.
We can store our data as it a tabular form in your excel shoots as well.
But come pacto excel sheets CS we Is there a simple way to store your tabler type of data?
Let me do one thing.
First of all,
I'm going to open a simple fight.
Let me open a file called simply any any text file.
I'm going to open it,
right.
Fine.
See that?
Let me open it First seem by default,
you will see a sweet data is separated with Come on.
So basically see so you can assume that CS was like your excel sheet or tabular data.
The tablet is nothing But you have rows and columns.
Your data.
Your data is like gross and column.
Let's say Ah,
how supposed column A serial number?
Name,
couple salary,
then skill.
So I'm going to store in this way.
Suppose let's say,
John,
Right on.
Study salad.
Eight.
Some $2000.
Let's say Piper,
then how,
Jason?
Then $1000.
Then I hope supposed bash.
Let me save it.
Does I just see us?
We fight some in four dot CS week.
That's it.
So I saved your file as dot CS we extension as it see us.
We fight.
See?
Now this is your Sears terrified.
I can weapon.
This is yes.
We filed with any note back,
right?
See that your data is there as it is.
Oh,
by the fourth,
I can ableto weapon that using your excellent shoots as well.
See that on for medical?
Your data is arranged in terms off rows and columns in terms off rows and columns.
So,
guys,
if you observe while storing your data right,
we store our data by taking comma as the separator between your columns,
right?
Not only that,
you can also store your data by taking any other day limit Razzle,
let's say I'm going today again.
Same data with the dilemma.
It was something like Pipeline serial number name,
supple salary.
Then I'm going to take skill.
Let's say serial number one John,
I'm taking salary supposed $2000 skill.
Let's say fighting.
Same way.
I'm going to store one more data.
You can take anything.
So here,
my interns knees in case you for take separate rather than comma.
How you can work with the What sees REFIles That's important.
Let me now sell this file as a some new info dot CSP.
Let me say,
with us Nazis,
we find Let's a name as new in full dot CS week.
Nothing.
No.
Previously,
you store your data by taking separate routes comma,
but now I have taken some progress pipeline by default.
If I weapon that I see that now you are not getting your data in terms off columns.
See that Your Excellency is not able to identify your data as in terms Off column that has
given only one column.
But you know the delimited right?
What is the deal emitter you used to create your CSU file?
Just set up your column.
Goto data X two columns Deli meat.
A millimeter,
right.
Just select the other un provided were biplane as See that Now you're able to fetch.
You are later.
I mean,
you were ableto ah,
convertible daytime.
The number off columns based on the separator you you used for your data.
Right?
So this is also one type off,
including,
See if you know,
pipeline then only can able to recruit the data from your fight.
So if 30% don't know what is that?
A limited you used for your data?
Them?
They can't separate your data like so It's like a one type off.
Including,
of course not.
Not much good,
but up to something limited.
It is good practice.
That's fine.
In case if his story what data in CS refile,
it is very easy to transform your data to your database or from greater base to a few 100
download.
It is very easy to donor into CS three fights.
That's when real time most of the cases you will work with CSP files.
Intern off Excel shoots.
That's fine.
No base a junior.
You how one sees we fight?
No.
You want to read the data using python.
Then how you can really right.
See,
let me sell a script name called Really CSP any anything you can take it now I'm going to
take it.
Ah,
I'm going to store some where you can store anywhere.
Let's say I want to store here.
Read CS.
We file,
not fight on.
So if you want to read a CSP file or if you want to write a daytime to your CSU file in
your python,
you have a default model called CSP.
Fortunately,
import that these are the for the model.
You can bet it to use that.
Then let me take required file to read.
So samples that finally,
someone,
let's say in four dot c a sweet they.
But guys,
whenever if you're working with files,
it is a good practice to provide complete part.
Right?
See,
let me take the complete part for my file.
So actually,
it is there in somewhere,
right?
So I'm going to provide complete part for my file en gays.
You are working with the windows.
That's why Please,
please provide two slashes in your path.
Yeah,
fine.
No,
you how in your hand you will see us.
We fight next unit to read it.
So guys,
forget about he see us.
We If you want to read a text file,
how we can read already We have seen our previous videos,
Right?
Let's say I'm goingto weapon you're filing.
Read more.
Your filings there in the variable corps require file.
I want to read the content than weapon your file and read more.
Finally,
just to close your file.
Now I want to get that later.
What is there with you?
Ever see us?
We file.
I mean with your file.
So content or data equals to simply a four dot I'm taking read lines.
Then let me print your data.
So I'm going to take one by one line from you are content.
Then I want to print that.
See the result?
Yes.
You're getting your data line by line,
right?
So you know,
if you want to remove the that space empty life,
you can strip it.
Yes,
you're getting But the thing is,
this is like a string.
String him into this.
The entire data is like a one column.
But we know CSU is nothing but tabler data.
So now you're not getting your data as a separate columns.
Your entire line you're getting as a one,
lane.
Only I should not get like that because it is a CS three.
I need to get in terms off columns right now.
What you have,
Louise.
First you have to really worry how the weapon you're filing read more,
then whatever that data you how inside off your file,
that data,
you know,
to convert it into rows and columns.
Anyway,
we're getting Rose,
but unit convert that data into columns that I want you to do is you need to parse unit to
send your data into CSP so that C s we will convert your data in terms off columns.
Right?
So now see that what I'm doing is see a sweet leader not interdict this model nt variable
Simply going today.
See a sweet See this week,
reader cr are simply see us.
We are date up equals to want you.
Ha!
To boo ees from CSP module.
Right?
Use a function call reader.
So from your file,
try to convert the world rose anywhere file is nothing but normal.
Finally also,
you're going to get line by line line is nothing but a hero in your CSB.
But that line consist off that line consist off columns.
So C s,
we will automatically converted data in two columns right now.
See the result.
So,
guys,
in your data,
you have all liver rose off your CS three in terms off columns.
Let me take suppose if I directly print your data.
So that is a object.
But inside of that object,
you have number off Rosen on each.
Roy consist off some columns.
So if you want to see that for each in your data,
let's say I want to bring that.
No,
See,
that isn't what happened.
Oh,
for each and later.
we close that right?
Yeah.
Let me close after this.
No.
See,
there you are able to get your data.
each line has a list.
List means number off values,
separate values.
That means this is one column.
This is one column.
This is one called separate columns.
You're getting by separate columns you're getting are in case.
In case if you don't want to take this if you don't want to use your CS week,
right?
See,
what I'm doing is Let's say I want their content off my file,
you know?
Therefore,
Lord Reid lines without CSP model Also,
you can convert your data into number off columns.
See that I'm going to print.
First of all,
you want data line by line?
Yes.
You're getting Mark.
You know,
this is a a single rule in this.
So you have four columns.
Now,
if you ever hear this string So,
Mary o comma,
I can split it.
No,
simply actually,
this operation is doing by your CS three model.
That's it.
Now,
see,
that is a the same data on what you're getting from your CSE model.
Same thing you can able to get it.
But no need to do this.
A split operation by your cells that will taken care by U R.
C s we module.
That's why what we are doing is right.
See that no content is nothing but from your CS remodel.
Create a real object or Conforti work spring string off rose into some columns.
So for that you can go in this way.
That's it.
Now for each ing content,
right?
Oh,
let me bring each No see,
that is a You're finally need to close your file.
Don't forget aboard that and for dot Close not to.
Right?
So,
guys,
actually CSB splitting your data based on the limiter But we are not profiting anywhere
delimited right Then how you are seeing the model is splitting your line in tow A list
which consist off your values as columns we know by the Ford C s we will cause they're
separate routes Comma stays with nothing but comma separated values but in gives if you
want to mention to your CSP if you want to tell you your Sears we used this as a separator
millimeter.
You can mention de limiter is nothing bird comma not you can see the result,
right?
I suppose if I don't mention this on anywhere by default that you were day elementaries
comma by the fold with your Sears with that we see is well,
a gym.
That comatose operator.
No,
we have one more file,
right?
If you order this file New in four in their dilemma is not a comma.
Let me try with that New in four you're getting your data has a one value on your list.
That means again you have one column I said these are four columns in each line,
right?
But they're getting as a one column.
Then in this case,
you need the limiter.
So for better practice,
always try to right the limit arise.
You were required thing.
I mean,
you just mentioned your dilemma Option as well.
Well,
converting your daytime too.
Rows and columns?
Not No,
it is not separated by a comma as a separate.
It is a piper as a separate.
No,
Let me run it.
What happened?
Sorry,
not millimeter.
So likewise.
What the what?
The memory.
How in the world sees refile If you know that you can able to Really?
What?
Data?
Using your fight on very easily in this way.
Right,
Fine.
So this is the way how we can really work content from your CSB file.
So there's nothing,
is there just weapon?
You were CS we file in,
read more like a text file offer that you're going to convert your data into tabular data
by using this operation from C s we dot reader then provided well file object information
on What is that delimited university is we find?
Then you're going to get content then in that continue all over rows and columns.
Then you need to take one by one rule.
See,
if we didn't see us,
we file right is having Reus.
He drew having some columns.
So all those if I I can take by using for loop from your content not only continue can take
any variable here.
Right?
So after reading that John,
you can close your file.
Okay,
So there's there's a simple way to really will see us.
Refiles well,
going forward,
we will see different ways to work with the what?
CS refines.
Okay in Actually,
we will see how to write the country into your CSS we find.
Okay.
Okay,
guys,
thank you for watching this video,
okay?